**************
SciPy Tutorial
**************

.. sectionauthor:: Travis E. Oliphant

SciPy is a collection of mathematical algorithms and convenience
functions built on the Numpy extension for Python. It adds
significant power to the interactive Python session by exposing the
user to high-level commands and classes for the manipulation and
visualization of data. With SciPy, an interactive Python session
becomes a data-processing and system-prototyping environment rivaling
sytems such as Matlab, IDL, Octave, R-Lab, and SciLab.

The additional power of using SciPy within Python, however, is that a
powerful programming language is also available for use in developing
sophisticated programs and specialized applications. Scientific
applications written in SciPy benefit from the development of
additional modules in numerous niche's of the software landscape by
developers across the world. Everything from parallel programming to
web and data-base subroutines and classes have been made available to
the Python programmer. All of this power is available in addition to
the mathematical libraries in SciPy.

This document provides a tutorial for the first-time user of SciPy to
help get started with some of the features available in this powerful
package. It is assumed that the user has already installed the
package. Some general Python facility is also assumed such as could be
acquired by working through the Tutorial in the Python distribution.
For further introductory help the user is directed to the Numpy
documentation.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   general
   basic
   special
   integrate
   optimize
   interpolate
   signal
   linalg
   stats

